INTERNALS/notes.md, before:

## EXERCISE 1

1. Setup
- minikube start 
- doskey k=kubectl $*

2. Running one single pod
- k run <pod-name> --image=<image-name> --port=<port-no.>
- ex: k run hello-k8s --image=nginx --port=80

3. Creating external service so that the pod can be accessed from browser
- k expose pod <pod-name> --type=<type> --port=<port-no.>
- k expose pod hello-k8s --type=NodePort --port=80
- It creates a Service object so your pod can be reached from outside.
    1. expose = make a Service for an existing Pod
    2. pod hello-k8s = expose this specific pod
    3. --type=NodePort = open a port on the node (e.g., 30000–32767)
    4. --port=80 = service will forward traffic to port 80 inside the pod

4. To access the service
- minikube service <service-name>
- ex: minikube service hello-k8s
- here the service name is same as the pod name

D:\IMPORTANT\Projects\Kubernetes\internals\exercise1-hello-pod>minikube service hello-k8s
|-----------|-----------|-------------|---------------------------|
| NAMESPACE |   NAME    | TARGET PORT |            URL            |
|-----------|-----------|-------------|---------------------------|
| default   | hello-k8s |          80 | http://192.168.49.2:31735 |
|-----------|-----------|-------------|---------------------------|
🏃  Starting tunnel for service hello-k8s.
|-----------|-----------|-------------|------------------------|
| NAMESPACE |   NAME    | TARGET PORT |          URL           |
|-----------|-----------|-------------|------------------------|
| default   | hello-k8s |             | http://127.0.0.1:59517 |
|-----------|-----------|-------------|------------------------|
🎉  Opening service default/hello-k8s in default browser...
❗  Because you are using a Docker driver on windows, the terminal needs to be open to run it.


## EXERCISE 2. CREATE AND DEPLOY A FLASK APP IN A CONTAINER IN KUBERNETES
1. Create an image
a. create `app.py` = a simple flask app
b. create Dockerfile
c. cd to current folder
d. configure docker to build images inside minikube
    > minikube docker-env 
    - then run the last command in the output
c. > docker build -t <image-name> .
    ex: docker build -t flask-app .
e. confirm image
    -

2. Create a deployment which uses the above created image
- keep the imagePullPolicy=NEVER, it only uses the local one if exists and doesnt search on dockerhub
- create the deployment yaml
    > k apply -f flask-deployment.yaml

3. Call minikube to create a tunnel and expose service from browser
    > minikube service flask-service

## EXERCISE 3. SCALING PODS USING REPLICASET
1. Create small server (`app.py`) and build an image (refer to the Dockerfile for details)
2. Create a `replicaset.yaml` manifest which sets up 3 replicas which use the above image
    - also setup the liveness probe and readyness probe
3. apply -f replicaset.yaml and then check if everything working
4. > minikube service flashsale-svc # this starts up the terminal
5. scale up the number of replicas
    > k scale replicaset flashsale-rs --replicas=5

## EXERCISE 4. NETWORKING USING BRIDGE NETWORK
1. 3 containers: flask app, sql db, redis
2. create a bridge network inside the docker
    > docker network create --driver=bridge my-bridge-net
3. create a small flask server and build an image (refer to the Dockerfile for details)
    > docker build -t flask-api .
4. spawn 3 containers, while the flask container uses the image we just created
    docker run -d --name mysql --net=my-bridge-net mysql:latest
    docker run -d --name redis --net=my-bridge-net redis:latest
    docker run -d --name flask --net=my-bridge-net -p 5001:5001 flask-api
5. exec into any of the container and ping the others
    > docker exec -it flask-api bash
    - i in it stands for interactive (sends your keyboard input)
    - t displays terminal
    - light weight images wont have ping command
        > apt update
        > apt install iputils-ping -y
    - this will install ping and now available to use!
    > ping redis
6. remove containers 
    > docker stop flask-api redis sqldb
    > docker rm flask-api redis sqldb

## EXERCISE 5.


## EXERCISE 6. MONITORING USING PROMETHEUS AND GRAFANA (extra notes in separate .md file)
0. to enter the virtual environment, go exercise6-monitoring folder
    > venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
    - and run the above command. (this assumes virutal environment was already created)
1. prometheus client
    - A Prometheus client refers to a library or tool that allows an application to expose metrics in a format that the Prometheus monitoring system can scrape and collect.
    - create `delivery_metrics.py` which has 2 types of metrics: guage and summary. 
        - counter: strictly increasing metric
        - guage: is a type of metric that inc or dec
        - histogram: for bar distributions with fixed buckets
        - summary: records the changes too (has history)
    - the script first stirs up a simple server (`start_http_server`)
    - simple server simulates delivery every sec (sleep(1))
    - now access this at http://localhost:8000
2. `prometheus.yml` & `alert_rules.yml`, first one scrapes the data the above prom client gives and second one based on few conditions, throws alert. 
3. run a container with prometheus image, mounted with a volume which contains both the above jobs
    > docker run -d --name prometheus -p 9090:9090 -v ./prometheus.yml:/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml -v ./alert_rules.yml:/etc/prometheus/alert_rules.yml  prom/prometheus
    - -v tag: mounts those 2 jobs in a volume. from local directory to their respective locations inside 
    - prom/prometheus: is the official image
    - now access the running container at http://localhost:9090
    - this scrapes data from http://localhost:8000, go to Status/Target and Query/Graph for insights on the scraped data
4. Grafana
- create a grafana container
> docker run -d --name grafana -p 3000:3000 grafana/grafana
- can access at http://localhost:3000
-  go to connections> add new data source > search prometheus > add location as http://host.docker.internal:9090 > Save and test
- now grafana queries prometheus
- go to dashboard > add new panels > choose any metric (one from the 4 we had created) and display
5. Jenkins
- create a folder `jenkins_home`
> docker run -d -p 8080:8080 -p 50000:50000 --name jenkins -v jenkins_home:/var/jenkins_home jenkins/jenkins:latest
- access at http://localhost:8080
-

Commit message:

Add .gitignore for Jenkins home and update notes with Jenkins setup instructions

INTERNALS/notes.md, after:

## EXERCISE 1

1. Setup
- minikube start 
- doskey k=kubectl $*

2. Running one single pod
- k run <pod-name> --image=<image-name> --port=<port-no.>
- ex: k run hello-k8s --image=nginx --port=80

3. Creating external service so that the pod can be accessed from browser
- k expose pod <pod-name> --type=<type> --port=<port-no.>
- k expose pod hello-k8s --type=NodePort --port=80
- It creates a Service object so your pod can be reached from outside.
    1. expose = make a Service for an existing Pod
    2. pod hello-k8s = expose this specific pod
    3. --type=NodePort = open a port on the node (e.g., 30000–32767)
    4. --port=80 = service will forward traffic to port 80 inside the pod

4. To access the service
- minikube service <service-name>
- ex: minikube service hello-k8s
- here the service name is same as the pod name

D:\IMPORTANT\Projects\Kubernetes\internals\exercise1-hello-pod>minikube service hello-k8s
|-----------|-----------|-------------|---------------------------|
| NAMESPACE |   NAME    | TARGET PORT |            URL            |
|-----------|-----------|-------------|---------------------------|
| default   | hello-k8s |          80 | http://192.168.49.2:31735 |
|-----------|-----------|-------------|---------------------------|
🏃  Starting tunnel for service hello-k8s.
|-----------|-----------|-------------|------------------------|
| NAMESPACE |   NAME    | TARGET PORT |          URL           |
|-----------|-----------|-------------|------------------------|
| default   | hello-k8s |             | http://127.0.0.1:59517 |
|-----------|-----------|-------------|------------------------|
🎉  Opening service default/hello-k8s in default browser...
❗  Because you are using a Docker driver on windows, the terminal needs to be open to run it.


## EXERCISE 2. CREATE AND DEPLOY A FLASK APP IN A CONTAINER IN KUBERNETES
1. Create an image
a. create `app.py` = a simple flask app
b. create Dockerfile
c. cd to current folder
d. configure docker to build images inside minikube
    > minikube docker-env 
    - then run the last command in the output
c. > docker build -t <image-name> .
    ex: docker build -t flask-app .
e. confirm image
    -

2. Create a deployment which uses the above created image
- keep the imagePullPolicy=NEVER, it only uses the local one if exists and doesnt search on dockerhub
- create the deployment yaml
    > k apply -f flask-deployment.yaml

3. Call minikube to create a tunnel and expose service from browser
    > minikube service flask-service

## EXERCISE 3. SCALING PODS USING REPLICASET
1. Create small server (`app.py`) and build an image (refer to the Dockerfile for details)
2. Create a `replicaset.yaml` manifest which sets up 3 replicas which use the above image
    - also setup the liveness probe and readyness probe
3. apply -f replicaset.yaml and then check if everything working
4. > minikube service flashsale-svc # this starts up the terminal
5. scale up the number of replicas
    > k scale replicaset flashsale-rs --replicas=5

## EXERCISE 4. NETWORKING USING BRIDGE NETWORK
1. 3 containers: flask app, sql db, redis
2. create a bridge network inside the docker
    > docker network create --driver=bridge my-bridge-net
3. create a small flask server and build an image (refer to the Dockerfile for details)
    > docker build -t flask-api .
4. spawn 3 containers, while the flask container uses the image we just created
    docker run -d --name mysql --net=my-bridge-net mysql:latest
    docker run -d --name redis --net=my-bridge-net redis:latest
    docker run -d --name flask --net=my-bridge-net -p 5001:5001 flask-api
5. exec into any of the container and ping the others
    > docker exec -it flask-api bash
    - i in it stands for interactive (sends your keyboard input)
    - t displays terminal
    - light weight images wont have ping command
        > apt update
        > apt install iputils-ping -y
    - this will install ping and now available to use!
    > ping redis
6. remove containers 
    > docker stop flask-api redis sqldb
    > docker rm flask-api redis sqldb

## EXERCISE 5.


## EXERCISE 6. MONITORING USING PROMETHEUS AND GRAFANA (extra notes in separate .md file)
0. to enter the virtual environment, go exercise6-monitoring folder
    > venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
    - and run the above command. (this assumes virutal environment was already created)
1. prometheus client
    - A Prometheus client refers to a library or tool that allows an application to expose metrics in a format that the Prometheus monitoring system can scrape and collect.
    - create `delivery_metrics.py` which has 2 types of metrics: guage and summary. 
        - counter: strictly increasing metric
        - guage: is a type of metric that inc or dec
        - histogram: for bar distributions with fixed buckets
        - summary: records the changes too (has history)
    - the script first stirs up a simple server (`start_http_server`)
    - simple server simulates delivery every sec (sleep(1))
    - now access this at http://localhost:8000
2. `prometheus.yml` & `alert_rules.yml`, first one scrapes the data the above prom client gives and second one based on few conditions, throws alert. 
3. run a container with prometheus image, mounted with a volume which contains both the above jobs
    > docker run -d --name prometheus -p 9090:9090 -v ./prometheus.yml:/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml -v ./alert_rules.yml:/etc/prometheus/alert_rules.yml  prom/prometheus
    - -v tag: mounts those 2 jobs in a volume. from local directory to their respective locations inside 
    - prom/prometheus: is the official image
    - now access the running container at http://localhost:9090
    - this scrapes data from http://localhost:8000, go to Status/Target and Query/Graph for insights on the scraped data
4. Grafana
- create a grafana container
> docker run -d --name grafana -p 3000:3000 grafana/grafana
- can access at http://localhost:3000
-  go to connections> add new data source > search prometheus > add location as http://host.docker.internal:9090 > Save and test
- now grafana queries prometheus
- go to dashboard > add new panels > choose any metric (one from the 4 we had created) and display

5. Jenkins
- create a folder `jenkins_home`
> docker run -d --name jenkins `
>>   -p 8080:8080 -p 50000:50000 `
>>   -v "${PWD}\jenkins_home:/var/jenkins_home" `
>>   -v "/var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock" `
>>   jenkins/jenkins:lts
- access at http://localhost:8080
- get the password from your jenkins container, run this command
    > docker exec -it jenkins bash
    - once inside the container run
    > cat /var/jenkins_home/secrets/initialAdminPassword
    - this will print the password onto the terminal, copy paste that on jenkins browser
- open and let the plugins install
- install docker in jenkins
    > docker exec -u root -it jenkins bash
    > apt-get update
    > apt-get install -y docker.io
- create a pipeline in jenkins
    - new-item > pipeline > enter github url [https://github.com/GunankaD/Kubernetes/] > under pipelines give Jenkinsfile with scm > enter Jenkinsfile location as [INTERNALS/exercise6-monitoring/delivery-monitoring/Jenkinsfile] > create
    - extra details under Jenkins scm
        - git
        - enter repo url
        - change master to main
        - Jenkinsfile location as `INTERNALS/exercise6-monitoring/delivery-monitoring/Jenkinsfile`
- run the build
